# Thesis Project Ideas

My main areas of expertise are survey statistics and statistical/machine learning.  In my own research, I adapt statistical learning techniques, such as lasso, penalized splines, regression trees, to work with data collected under a complex sampling design (think stratification and clustering).  

Many of the projects listed below have been generated by my work with the [US Forest Inventory and Analysis Program](https://www.fia.fs.fed.us/)(FIA) and the [US Bureau of Labor Statistics](https://www.bls.gov/)(BLS) and therefore include stakeholders who would have a vested interest in your work and findings!  

* **Prediction of rare events**
    + In my work with FIA, we are trying to detect annual changes in the landscape, such as land being converted from forest to agriculture.  Unfortunately, this is a difficult classification problem because changes are fairly rare.  This extreme class imbalance greatly hinders the effectiveness of the predictive models since a model which predicts all plots of land will have no change has a high accuracy rate but isn't very useful.  Many methods have been proposed to remedy this issue: over/undersampling, penalized methods, cost-sensitive algorithms.  Which method would work best for landscape change?  One vision for this project would be to learn about the various remedies for class imbalance and to conduct an empirical analysis of their applicability to forestry data.    

* **Time series with measurement error**
    + For a pilot site in Georgia, FIA has landscape data dating back several decades.  Plotting the data it is clear that forests are decreasing and being replaced by developed land.  However, can we show this trend is statistically significant when the data itself has measurement error.  In this project, the student would learn about time series analysis and time series models which account for measurement errors in the data.  These models would then be applied to the Georgia pilot site to better understand the long term land use trends.
 
* **Statistical Learning Techniques**
    + Is there a statistical learning technique that you want to better understand?  
    
* **Predicting Outliers**
    + Imputation in survey data

* Survey sampling

* Voter id issues
    + Construct and implement a sampling design.  
    + Learn survey estimation procedures to analyze data.
    
